More details on GDAL create options (#3755)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/user_manual/introduction/qgis_configuration.rst

GDAL Settings
-------------

`GDAL <https://www.gdal.org>`_ is a data exchange library for vector and raster files.

> Depending on the format, GDAL helps to read and/or write data and, accordingly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GDAL reads and/or writes data and
```

> the current tab provides following capabilities (only for rasters, yet):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the current tab provides the following options (currently only for raster formats):
```

Reviewer: GDAL used to be for raster, and OGR for vector. I don't know if that can be a reason for "raster only" here.

Author: There's an issue report to add vector drivers (https://github.com/qgis/QGIS/issues/23126 or https://github.com/qgis/QGIS-Documentation/pull/1938#discussion_r127602066)

.. _gdal_createoptions:

> * :guilabel:`Edit create options`: it allows you to edit or add different profiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :guilabel:`Edit create options`: allows you to edit or add different profiles
```

  of file transformation, i.e. a set of predefined combinations of parameters
  (type and level of compression, blocks size, overview, colorimetry, alpha...)

>   to use when outputting raster files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to use when outputting raster files. The parameters depend on the format.
```

  .. _figure_gdal_create_settings:

  .. figure:: img/gdalCreateOptions.png
     :align: center

>      Sample of create options profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Sample of create options profile (for GeoTIFF)
```

  The upper part of the dialog lists the current profile(s) and allows you to
  add new ones or remove any of them. You can also reset the profile to its

>   default parameters if you changed it meanwhile. Some formats (eg, GeoTiff)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  default parameters if you have changed them. Some formats (eg, GeoTiff)
```

>   already propose some sample of profiles you can work with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  have some sample profiles you can work with.
```

  At the bottom of the dialog:

  * The |signPlus| button lets you add rows to fill with the parameter name and value

>   * The |signMinus| button deletes a previously added parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The |signMinus| button deletes the selected parameter
```

  * Click the :guilabel:`Validate` button to check that the creation options

>     entered for the given format are compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    entered for the given format are valid
```

>   * Use the :guilabel:`Help` button to find out the parameters to use or refer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Use the :guilabel:`Help` button to find the parameters to use or refer
```

    to the `GDAL documentation for legal creation options for each
    format <https://www.gdal.org/formats_list.html>`_.

* :guilabel:`Edit Pyramids Options`

  .. _figure_gdal_pyramids_settings:

  .. figure:: img/gdalPyramidsOptions.png
     :align: center

>      Sample of Pyramids profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Sample of Pyramids profile (for GeoTIFF)
```

Author: Not necessarily GeoTiff related (you have the same overview dialog for many (or all?) write drivers)

Reviewer: That was also my point.  There are other formats that support pyramids, but this figure only shows what the dialogue looks like for GeoTIFF.

Author: Euh... not sure I follow you. What I meant is that afaict if you select another driver, you get the same dialog for pyramids so no need IMHO to append GeoTiff mention.

Reviewer: The appearance of the dialogue varies slightly - compare with "Exernal (Erdas Imagine .aux)", where the Profile choice under Create Options is disabled (greyed out).

Author: OK I see, we are not talking about the same thing. In your case you expand the overview format and are comparing the features. Me, i was saying that whatever driver you select in the first drop-down menu, then hit the "edit pyramids options", you get the same dialog(s)/options. And since Geotiff is used in the previous image caption to indicate the **driver** whose properties are shown, it'd be misleading to add it here.

Reviewer: With the currently supported formats, you get the same options.  But as i pointed out, the Profile choice is greyed out for one of them, and not for the others, hence the dialogue will appear slightly different.
Would "(for the GeoTIFF driver)" be better?

Reviewer: It was just a suggestion. No problem leaving it as it is.

Author: Ok. Thanks. Let's move like this and add precision when we get a description.

> * Define which GDAL driver is to be used to read and/or write files,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define which GDAL driver is to use to read and/or write files,
```
